---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Internal message
## 1. Overview
It is important to have a unified language for communication between services, especially for hybrid architecture. CellularJS's internal message is not built from scratch, instead it is based on interface of a well-known protocol - HTTP.

Just to clarify, _internal message is not HTTP message_, it is made out of HTTP message. You can consider internal message as a DTO with HTTP-like structure.

## 2. Internal request
:::note
CellularJS can work well with HTTP but it is a protocol-agnostic framework. It has nothing called session, cookie. If you want to use it, please map it into internal message header, or even body.
:::

### 2.1. Request header
Request header is an object. You can define any header but there are some reserved headers you should known.

#### 2.1.1. to
`to` is used for routing request. It includes a [cell name](/docs/foundation/net/virtual-network#11-name) and a service name separated by a colon(Eg: 'Mailer:SendMail', 'Auth:SignIn').

#### 2.1.2. referer
`referer`(optional) is the name of the cell and service that current request come from(Eg: 'User:GetInfo'). You will need this header when [sending request across cells](/docs/foundation/net/transporter#2-using-specific-driver).

### 2.2. Request body
Request body contain request data and this data must be [well-known data](/docs/foundation/net/internal-message#4-well-known-data).  
_Default value: `{}`_

### 2.3. Example
**Example 1:** Create internal request.
```ts
import { IRQ } from '@cellularjs/net';

// IRQ to get logged in user info:
const getUserInfoIrq = new IRQ({
  to: 'User:Me',
  token: '**.******.**',
});

// IRQ for file uploading:
const uploadFilesIrq = new IRQ(
  {
    to: 'Media:PushObjects',
    token: '**.******.**',
  },
  { objs: [] },
);
```

**Example 2:** Get current internal request in callee with [dependency injection](/docs/foundation/dependency-injection/overview).
```ts
import { IRQ, Service, ServiceHandler } from '@cellularjs/net';


@Service({ scope: 'publish' })
export class SignIn implements ServiceHandler {
  constructor(
    private irq: IRQ,
  ) { }

  handle() {
    const { irq } = this;

    console.log(irq.body.username);
    console.log(irq.body.password);
    // ...
  }
}
```

:::tip
For request validation, let have a look at this [article](/docs/how-to%20wiki/validation)
:::

## 3. Internal response
### 3.1. Response header
Like request header, response header is an object. You can define any header but there are some reserved headers in CellularJS too.

#### 3.1.1. Status
`status` is an integer, it includes the 3 first digits and extended status(optional).

**The 3 first digits:** It has similar meaning to [HTTP status code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_HTTP_status_codes).  
- `1xx`: Informational response(placeholder).
- `2xx`: Success response.
- `3xx`: Redirection(placeholder).
- `4xx`: Error response, caused by caller.
- `5xx`: Error response, caused by callee.

:::note
If the first digit of status code is 4 or 5, the response will be considered as an error response.
:::

**Extended status(optional)**: Followed by the 3 first digits is your extended status. It help you extend the original meaning of the 3 first digits. You can define your own extended status for *__internal use__*.

:::note
You can use any number for extended status but it should be consistent, well-known among services.
:::

Example:
- 500000: Internal error('000' is used for original status).
- 500001: Database connection timeout cause internal error.


### 3.2. Response body
Response body, like request body, it must contain [well-known data](/docs/foundation/net/internal-message#4-well-known-data).  
_Default value: `undefined`_

### 3.3. Example
```ts
import { IRS } from '@cellularjs/net';

const badRequestIrs = new IRS(
  { status: 400, id: 'abc**********' },
  {
    err: 'BAD_REQUEST', // human friendly code
    errs: [
      { src: 'name', err: 'MAX_LENGTH', maxLength: 120 },
      { src: 'images[3]', err: 'MIME', mime: ['jpg', 'jpeg', 'gif', 'png' ] },
      { src: 'variants[0].price', err: 'REQUIRED' },
      { src: 'variants[2].quantity', err: 'NUMBER' },
    ],
  },
);

const accessForbiddenIrs = new IRS(
  { status: 403 },
  { err: 'ACCESS_FORBIDDEN' },
);

const successIrs = new IRS();
```

## 4. Well-known data
_A well-known data is a data that can be understood by both caller and callee_. In the context of CellularJS, it can be transferable object, array, string, number,...
