---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Service
## 1. Overview
Service terminology is used in many situations with different meaning. In this article, the service that we talk about is a stuff that expose business functionality.

## 2. Service decorator
Technically, a valid service handler in CellularJS must be decorated by `Service` decorator. `Service` decorator options includes:

### 2.1. Scope
Abstraction and encapsulation are the most important fundamental concepts of programming, not just in OOP world. To help you protect your excellent code from unexpected behaviour, CellularJS provides 3 types of access scope for service.
- `publish`: with this scope, service is accessible from any client. It is named as [**publish**](https://martinfowler.com/ieeeSoftware/published.pdf), NOT *public* as you may expected(Why? Please read the reference article and remember the intention when you create this service).
- `space`: accessible from cells/services having same [space](/docs/foundation/net/virtual-network#12-space) only.
- `private`: accessible from internal cell only.

:::caution
CellularJS support sending [message](/docs/foundation/net/internal-message) across services via virtual network, but it does not mean you can do it without any [consideration](#).
:::

**Example**: `SignIn` service with `publish` scope is accessible from any where.
```ts {4}
// ./services/sign-in.service.ts
import { Service, ServiceHandler } from '@cellularjs/net';

@Service({ scope: 'publish' })
export class SignIn implements ServiceHandler {
  handle() {
    return {
      token: '**.*******.**',
      rf_token: '**.****.**',
    };
  }
}
```

**Example 2**: `InnerTask` service with `private` scope is accessible from internal only.
```ts {4}
// ./services/inner-task.service.ts
import { Service, ServiceHandler } from '@cellularjs/net';

@Service({ scope: 'private' })
export class InnerTask implements ServiceHandler {
  handle() {
    // ...
  }
}
```

## 3. Service handler
In CellularJS, service handler is a class that implement `ServiceHandler` interface or at least it must have `handle` method. This method will be invoked by CellularJS whenever there is request to the service.

:::caution
If your `handle` method don't return `IRS` object, the returned data will be wrapped inside `IRS` body and this response will have default success response header.

Eg: below code has the same meaning. 
```ts {7,15}
import { Service, ServiceHandler, IRS } from '@cellularjs/net';

// Type 1: return IRS object.
@Service({ scope: 'publish' })
export class Task implements ServiceHandler {
  handle() {
    return new IRS({ status: 200 }, { data: true });
  }
}

// Type 2: return other data type.
@Service({ scope: 'publish' })
export class Task implements ServiceHandler {
  handle() {
    return { data: true };
  }
}
```
:::
