---
sidebar_position: 6
---

# Contributor Guideline
It's very nice to have your support. I can spend about 10h/week for this project, so your help is very important to make this framework better.

## 1. How can you get involved?
To provide easy to use and scalable framework, there are many tasks you can help:
- [Report bug](https://github.com/cellularjs/cellularjs/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=1-bug-report.yml), open [feature request](https://github.com/cellularjs/cellularjs/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=2-feature-request.yml) to tell me how can i help you.
- Modularize libraries with [@cellularjs/di](/docs/foundation/dependency-injection/module) so it can integrate with CellularJS more easily.
- Edit document, submit pull request resolving issues.
- Create sample applications that combine CellularJS with current Node.js ecosystem.
- ...

:::note
CellularJS use GitHub project to manage its tasks, you can [see it here](https://github.com/orgs/cellularjs/projects).
:::

## 2. Setup project
- You need to have Node.js >= 16.
- CellularJS use Yarn as package manager, let install it:
  ```bash
  npm install --global yarn
  ```
- [Fork](https://github.com/cellularjs/cellularjs/fork) CellularJS into your Github account.
- Clone source from your fork:
  ```bash
  git clone https://github.com/{your_username}/cellularjs.git
  cd cellularjs
  ```
- Set CellularJS as `upstream` for synchronize code later:
  ```bash
  git remote add upstream https://github.com/cellularjs/cellularjs.git
  ```
- Install packages with Yarn(Always use this command to update packages):
  ```bash
  yarn --frozen-lockfile
  ```

## 3. Workflow
:::note
For changes that will break current behavior, please open new issue/feature request for discussion first.
:::

### 3.1. Synchronize code with CellularJS
At [previous step](/docs/contributor-guideline#2-setup-project), if you have setup `upstream`, now you can synchronize code with below command.

_(If you have just setup this project, you may not need to synchronize code with CellularJS's `master` branch now.)_

```bash
# Update local master with CellularJS master branch
git checkout master
git pull --rebase upstream master

# Update your remote master branch
git push origin master
# or, if you have rebased: git push origin master --force-with-lease (DO NOT use -f) 

# Back to your working branch
git checkout you_working_branch

# Update code with local master branch
git rebase -i master
```

### 3.2. Create working branch
CellularJS use `master` as its main branch to develop upcoming version, you need to checkout from this branch to add new code.

Example:
```bash
git checkout master
git checkout -b you_working_branch
```

### 3.3. Run test before commit
After adding new code and appropriate tests, you need to run test before commit.

You need to build CellularJS packages, this is because a package can depend on others.
``` bash
yarn build
```

Now you can run test:
``` bash
# Run test cases of all packages without code coverage report.
yarn cmd:test

# Or, run test cases of all packages with code coverage report.
yarn cmd:coverage
```

:::tip
In develoment phase, you can run test of specific package like below example:
```base
yarn cmd:test --scope @cellularjs/net
```
:::

### 3.4. Commit code
:::note
It will run eslint when you commit, please fix all style issues if you got some.
:::

:::note
Please use squash to avoid redundant commits.
:::

CellularJS use [conventional commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) to enforce commit rule, please have a look at the reference link for more information. Overall, standard commit will look like this:
```
<type>[optional scope]: <description>

[optional body]

[optional footer(s)]
```

**Valid type:**
- chore: Update that make no production code change.
- docs: Update document, JSDoc.
- feat: New feature.
- fix: Bug fix.
- perf: improve performance.
- test: Add/edit test.

**Valid scope can be:**
- empty, when you don't update packages.
- package name: di, net, cli, ...

**Examples:**
- new feature: "feat(di): allow to import exported module automatically".
- bug fix: "fix(net): ignore .d.ts file not *d.ts".
- add test case: "test(di): add test case for unhappy path with getModuleMeta".
- ...

### 3.5. Submit your pull request
- Again, make sure you add appropriate test and all tests are passed.
- Make sure your code is [synchronize code with CellularJS's `master` branch](/docs/contributor-guideline#31-synchronize-code-with-cellularjs).
- Push changes to your fork
- Open a PR in CellularJS repository and wait for review(It may take up to 2 days for starting review).